# World Mirrors — parallel worlds in Samerion

"World Mirrors" is a nice and short name for a pretty simple and useful feature of the Samerion server. You will
barely even notice it exists, but it adds a little bit of detail to the world.

Explaining how it works would be the easiest by examples:

## Day and night

Chances are you've played a multiplayer game with a day/night cycle. You did, right? Samerion isn't different. There
is day and there is night. This is a nice thing, but usually has a small problem: You cannot sleep. You cannot skip
the night. Eventually, maybe you could, but all players have to go to sleep at once, which is very troublesome.
Especially for an MMO like Samerion.

But... In Samerion you *can* sleep. Even if out of all players you are alone. And yet, time is synchronized between
players. How? Mirrors.

When you enter the game, the server assigns you a "mirror". Mirrors are usually identical, except players are only
visible to each other if they are on the same mirror. Mirrors have time assigned to them: if you see the morning
light, all players you see in the area do so too. Now, if you go to sleep, your mirror will change in order to change
the time around you.

## Crowd control

There will be multiple spawnpoints for players across the game. When you create a character, it will start in one
of them. They all depend on the character you make, but noticeably some of them will be villages. Spawnpoints attract
people, which means some of those villages would be crowded, which is rather unusual.

Mirrors also help here. If there are too many people in the same area, a new mirror will be created to hold them.
The exact amount of players a single mirror can hold depends on the place. A village will not allow many, but
a capital city definitely will.

## Problems relating to mirrors

Mirrors may be confusing to new players, but I'll do my best to make them transparent.

If you want to play with friends, joining a team will place you in the same mirror as the team leader, so you will
always share time and space.

Sleeping will also give you the option to switch to a certain mirror, if you know what you're doing. Just note it may
not be possible if the mirror is already full.
