# Plans for the "priv dev" pre-release stage

Yesterday I've announced the planned development stages on Discord, starting with `private dev`. I've already set a goal
to start it before the end of June.

This stage will convey building the most basic mechanics of the game, such as movement, combat, items, shops... Not
much, just enough to put the game into a playable state.

Initially, only one person other than me will be able to play during this time. I may eventually let some other chosen
people in, but not many.

## Before entering priv dev

Before entering the stage, I need to get it possible to login into the server using an account. I've already got basic
registration and login mechanisms working for the website, I just need to integrate them into the game. Once the game
connects to the server, it will prompt logging in through the website, and then let the player into the game.

More than that, it should be possible to control a player character within the game. Just simple movement. I'm not
planning to get any animations working at this stage, so the character will just teleport over small distances at first.

## Within priv dev

The primary goal of priv dev is getting movement and combat working properly. The game will spawn some simple opponents
and the player will be able to fight them and gain experience.

Second goal is getting mirrors to work right. Just the basics, such as synchronizing player actions between devices
and moving between large map regions. I may also add some player interactions and make sure the server doesn't
accidentally split up a team onto two servers.

Last of all, I'd need to improve how the server communicates with the player, such as by introducing connection
encryption, but I'd like to get the previous things done first. Once this is complete, Samerion will be ready to enter
`private alpha`.

## Private alpha

I've announced already that during this time I'll be working on other basic mechanisms and polishing existing stuff.
Samerion had to be playable in `priv dev`, here it starts to look like a proper game.

There is one requirement you need to fulfill if you want to play during this stage — you just have to join the game's
Discord server.

That's all for today's blog, this one's unusually short, but I don't have much to say this time. See you ~~next week~~.
