# Role play: The dialogue system

Samerion, as a role-playing game, offers the player the possibility to interact and talk with NPCs. This is usually
pretty limited though.

> — So uh, hey NPC, do you have any quests? \
> — Yeah I do. Kill that monster and I'll pay you. \
> — Okay, I'll do it.

Well, it should be enough, right? The player came for a quest and got a quest. But one thing RPGs often offer is the
possibility to put your own character into the game and develop it — decide for it's skills, professions and such — and
dialogues can also be used for character development. The way you talk decides for your personality.

> — Hey there, NPC, heard ya have a quest, is that right? \
> — Yeah I do. Kill that monster and I'll pay you. \
> — Don't ya worry, its fate is already known! \
> — I do hope you're as strong as you're in your mouth. Go do it already and prove!

## Many ways to say the same thing

You came for that quest and you will get that quest, I'm sure of that. But how will you ask for it? Will you impress
the quest-giver, or will you make them resign from giving it to you?

The character's personality is not only shaped by things they do, they chose to do, but also by how they approach
things — if they know how to convince others, if they know what to treat seriously and when to joke, if they know who
to talk with and who to avoid. Even the smallest things can shape who a character is and how is it perceived by others.

Suppose you're looking for quests and you met the forementioned NPC, the one with the nice name "NPC". Here are your
options:

* _Greet them_
  * "Hello!"
  * "Do you have time to talk?"
  * "Hey, you!"
* _Ask for quests_
  * "I've heard you've got something to do, is that right?"
  * "Do you need help?"
  * "I'm willing to do your quest"
* _Ask how they are_
  * "How are you?"
  * "Are you okay?"
  * "You don't look too good, is something wrong?"
* _Provoke them_
  * _Wait silently_
  * _Tap on their arm_
  * _Draw your sword_

Characters you encounter may change their behavior based on options you choose. Options you get in the future may also
change — it's not so easy to change one's character.

However, I bet not everyone is interested in developing their character so deeply, so I'll make a shortcut to the first
option. Or, if someone wants to play more with what they can say, they could change available responses even further.

* "Hello"
  * "Hello, friend!"
  * "Hello, NPC"
  * "Hello, there"

## Companions

If you don't travel alone, you don't have to be the only person to talk. Your companions can join the discussion, or
even start them.

> Player: Hey there, NPC, I've heard you have a quest, is that right? \
> NPC: Yeah, I do. Kill that monster and I'll pay you. \
> Companion: First state how much you pay. \
> NPC: 2500 gold, is that enough? I don't have too much. \
> Companion: You should double it at least, there's two of us! \
> Player: Shut up, I can do it alone if you care so much about getting paid.

### Talking animals?

If you're creative and have access to appropriate magic, why don't you use it?

> Player: Hey NPC, what were you doing last night? \
> NPC: I was at home, sleeping. Nothing special, really. \
> Player: You're sure about that? \
> NPC: Okay, I was at the tavern in the evening, but it wasn't even that late. \
> Player: This is your dog, isn't it? \
> NPC: Yeah it is, so? \
> Dog: I saw you go to the graveyard. I don't think that's your home. \
> NPC: You...!

### Players

Have you ever thought about doing quests with friends? Oh, you can, absolutely, and the same rule still applies!

> Player A: Hello, NPC. \
> Player B: Hey there, friend... \
> NPC: What are you two up to‽ \
> Player A: Oh nothing special... \
> Player B: Except for your purse, I do hope you have something special in it.

## To sum up

Samerion's dialogue system lets you shape your character personality to liven the game up and to greatly improve
replayability, by making each dialogue more unique.

It may also enhance handling reputation. Becoming friends or allies might not only involve proving you're worthy, but
also doing casual talk. After all, even NPCs are people.
