# History of languages used for Samerion

*This post is about **programming** and is aimed at people interested in it: it might include technical language.*

Before I got to be writing the Samerion I'm writing today, I made a few prototypes of it earlier. My development
practices have changed over time and so did the programming languages I used. Development has only truly started when
I finally found my home, which I'll talk about at the end of this post.

[d]: https://dlang.org

## The first prototype: Samerion Demo

The first prototype was an app I made using [App Inventor 2](http://appinventor.mit.edu/). It was quite fresh back then,
lacking features and hard to develop in, but I just wanted to try it out. Instead of writing typical code, you connect
blocks, a lot like [Scratch](https://scratch.mit.edu/). It's worth noting they're both MIT projects.

This prototype was a text game, and it was singleplayer — so there wasn't a server. I stopped working on it, primarily
because AI2 was *very* slow at the time: both the editor and the resulting apps. It took a few seconds before I moved
from one place in the code to another, and playing the game was just watching it lag too.

AI2 had been greatly optimized since then, although it's not a tool I'd ever use again anyway.

I only remember releasing a single bugged (and slow) release of it I dubbed "Samerion Demo". It was in Polish. I think
I still have the source code online, and I could translate it to English if I wanted to, but I don't think it's worth
it.

## Samerion in Godot

There were a few iterations of Samerion prototypes made using [Godot Engine](https://godotengine.org). It's a pretty
good piece of software and if you're into game development, I would definitely recommend it. It's still in very active
development and has gotten some popularity, so it's pretty easy to find resources in it. I know quite a few people who
have used it too and I can say it's worth looking into.

Writing in Godot usually means using its own language, GDScript, which is a lot like Python, although more focused
to have nicer experience with object-oriented programming. It's quite easy to get into and get all the basic stuff
working. There's also the option of writing in C# but I didn't really like it, so I didn't really bother.

I don't remember how far did I get before I stopped developing the first version in Godot and why. I know that once I
decided to use it Samerion became a proper graphical game, and I it already had a server at the time. I also don't
remember what language I wanted to use for the server, but I barely knew anything about networking back then, so I guess
it might have been PHP (very bad idea).

## Sargonia bot v1

The idea of Samerion originally came from some niche online forums. It was a manually controlled game — you said what
your player had to do and I just made a few die rolls and replied with a new status of the game.

At a certain point I wanted to try to rebirth it — I wrote a bot to host the game. I got a moderator of the forums
to say "you should be fine" when I asked if I can make it, so I did. It was probably the most developed prototype of
them all. Exploration, combat, shopping, even had a dungeon or two. Most of it was still just pure grinding. The game
had gotten over 50 players total and two nolifes who seemed to really enjoying typing "1" over and over to trigger
the attack action.

Although to admit, the game could be quite fun even if it was pretty simple. It involved a lot of risky situations
and crazy stuff was common.

The bot was written in JavaScript using a manually developed client for the forum — it had no official API, so it just
did what a normal user would do in order to post. It requested a new version of the page every 5 seconds checking for
new messages and replied to each if there was something new.

You'd think it would be written in NodeJS, but actually it was a long piece of code running in a browser. This thing was
literally running in a set of three iframes on the website. And it didn't even use the new ES6 JS, I think it was only
starting to get popular at the time, so I didn't know it existed.

## Sargonia bot v2

Before I decided to make Sargonia v1 I was actually testing some things about the forums, and only somehow then the
tests turned into a bot hosting a game. Making a simple Samerion game to test things became a habit for me. I didn't
think it would evolve so much and even get a following.

I decided to rewrite the game in Python. I'm also pretty sure I planned to make the official Samerion server in Python
at the time, although eventually I gave up on this too. Sargonia hype had faded out and not only that, it seemed the
forums started dying too. People just became less and less active.

## Samerion in Godot — once again

Then I had attempted to write Samerion in Godot once again. I then learned about ES6 JavaScript and [TypeScript], which
I wanted to use for the server. I was really hyped for it, but the hype was eventually replaced with disappointment.
TypeScript, as a typical Microsoft product, was behind in documentation and in fixing trivial issues. To this day, the
TypeScript issue tracker has threads with thousands of +1 reactions given that haven't been touched in years.

Additional problem about JavaScript is... The whole thing is *very* heavy. Yes, it got popular and is one of the top
most used languages now. Websites are filled to brim with it. And this is a bad thing, because this contributes to the
famous problem of browsers using gigabytes of memory, and apps using it are usually much slower than they could be.

Of course, JavaScript can be a good thing, it's just abused. It's used when it really isn't needed. Many say the web
is much easier to browse with it off, I should try it out one day too.

[TypeScript]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/

## A small barely related project — RandomPG

RandomPG was my first attempt to write a project in C++. Yes, out of sudden a compiled language and not a script.
This was because I had a bit too much free time on my IT lessons at school, where we spend most of the time writing
small C++ programs to solve problems for IT contests. Not really my thing, so I decided I could try writing something
in that one language, since the only other languages available on the school computers were C, Python and Pascal, and
I really didn't feel like returning to Python.

RandomPG was a terminal game which featured simple character creation and world generation. It first made a height map,
then a temperature layer, and then based on those two it generated biomes. Quite like
[Minecraft](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minecraft), except it was meant to evolve into an RPG (the name was a play
on the abbreviation "RPG" and the word "random" if it wasn't obvious already).

At the time I had already gotten interest in compiled languages because scripts started feeling too heavy, so I thought
it's worth a shot to try C++. I had written my own simple build system using a POSIX shell script.

C++ had gotten tiring, especially in debugging. I think I ended because at one point I was just lost in my code while
hunting a segfault, even if my code was very clear.

## Samerion today

During the development of RandomPG I've learnt of [D][d], also called [Dlang][d], which seemed like a good language.
Seemed like something I'd really like, it had all the features I liked, even the niche ones most people don't realise
how nice they can be. Why can't I make an exception handler for a single statement in JavaScript?

```javascript
try doSomething();

catch (MyException) {

  handleFailure();

}
```

This won't work there, but will in D. I should mention exception handling in D can also be much better because of how
one can use `lazy` arguments and the so-called Uniform Function Call Syntax.

```d
// Ugly code
int foo;
try {
    foo = getFooValue();
}
catch (MyException) {
    foo = 0;
}

// D
auto foo = getFooValue().ifThrown(0);
```

D seemed too good to be true. But I actually got to use for a longer while and unlike all the other languages, it still
didn't disappoint. It was my dream language which I thought of making once I'd be done with Samerion — but I don't need
to, because it already exists.

The one small bait about D is it's not as popular as Python, JavaScript or [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/),
so there's not as many good libraries for it as for the alternatives, but it's so good I decided it's not so much
of a problem for me. And someone has to make the good libraries, right?

### Moving from Godot to Raylib

I continued trying to write in Godot, but some time before trying D I've got the idea of making Samerion fully 3D with
the library I called [Isodi]. Godot had two problems here:

* All the low level 3D operations in Godot came out very complex, my case is just too specific.
* While [Godot-D](https://github.com/godot-d/godot-d) exists and it's possible to write using D in Godot, Godot just
  doesn't seem to like how D manages memory and D objects randomly disappear. Using some Godot-provided alternatives
  works, but it's losing the point.

I've tried alternatives, such as [SDL](https://www.libsdl.org/) and [SFML](https://www.sfml-dev.org/), but my attempts
failed. Eventually, I've learnt about [Raylib](https://www.raylib.com/), which is a steadily developed and very portable
OpenGL rendering library, which also seemed to have really good D bindings. And in fact, it does.

I've sticked to it and I've developed the entirety of [Isodi] using it, made my own GUI library [Glui], and overall
development in D and Raylib is really, really pleasant. I never was as satisfied with any programming environment as
I'm with this combo. It's just awesome! &lt;3

I'll probably post a few more blog posts about D and Raylib in the future if you're interested. o7

[Isodi]: https://github.com/Samerion/Isodi
[Glui]: https://github.com/Samerion/Glui
