# The continent of Neasdal: Countries in Samerion

Samerion happens in a fantasy world under the name "Armitris". This name refers to the world as a whole — including
not only the one country Samerion happens in, but also the continent, the planet, the star system and even galaxies.

However, most of those are out of focus of the game — it all happens (mostly) on one planet, or even more specifically,
one continent: Neasdal.

For a long time, the map of the world was in a very vague state — only one of the countries was at least somewhat
mapped. I recently invited a friend over so we could figure it out together. Here's how this map looks now:

![A map of the world, featuring the primary continent, Neasdal, with marked borders, landscape and significant
rivers](/res/img/samerion-map.png)

*Map illustration by Poliku*

This post describes the major countries in Neasdal. There are still a few that will be described in the blog later.

## Sargonia

*Not to be confused with Samerion: Sargonia is a country, Samerion is a person. Their names are similar because
"Sargonia" was originally a title of a spin-off game, though it eventually became canon.*

Sargonia is primarily a human country, although it's also a home to people of all other [races]. It's the initial
start point of the game — and probably the only country to be featured on release. On the map, it's the country
on the top-left. Sargonia takes lead in the knowledge of magic, so here you'll find the best libraries and schools.

It's popular mostly because of the Prock volcano located in the Lanidaren forest, which has been a focus of research
for a long time — it's a very strong source of mana. The volcano itself seems to be capable of using its magic to
change the terrain around it and the forest seems to be a sign of this behavior.

Lanidaren is famously called the "forest of eternal fall", because it's always red like if it was fall. It's a house
to lots of unique plants that would fail to grow elsewhere. Many of them have incredible attributes, for example, are
resistant to fire or never burn out.

[races]: /blog/2021-04-09-races.md

## Ferrland

Ferrland is a larger country, dominated by humans. It has a violent history — it fought wars with Dhertree, Sargonia
and even attempted to take over the northern continent, although didn't succeed.

This place has the strongest army in the world, each soldier armed to teeth. Despite Armitris being in peace, mostly,
Ferrland still plots to take over its neighbours. One thing they lack though, is magicians, which is why they were
kept aside.

This is where you'd go if you're interested in becoming a mercenary, a knight, or if you wanted to become a legendary
hero and fight dragons, as many of them have chosen Ferrland as a place for their nest.

## Dhertree

Dhertree is an old elven country occupying the north-east part of the continent and an island next to it. Most of it is
covered by forests, especially the great Dhertree forest.  It's probably the region richest in unique trees, plants,
animals and even… spirits. It is ruled by a hierarchy, each region has its leaders, plus one chosen to be part of the
nation-wide council.

Elves living in the area live in small settlements and in full respect to the surrounding nature. They avoid harming it
and use only what they are given.

## Henua

Henua is a smaller country, occupied mostly by moais (on the west side) and dwarves (on the east side) located directly
south of Sargonia. Here you'll find many underground dwarven settlements and moais' so called "temples". Local mountains
are rich in precious ores and other resources.

This country is famous for sightseeing, thanks to its mountainous landscape and spectacular nature. Many travellers
go there to learn about the moai culture or to search for wisdom.

It might also be worth to stop by the dwarven mines to trade ores and other valuable resources — and try their beer
while you're there, because you won't find any better elsewhere.
