# Races of Armitris

There are 5 primary intelligent races in Samerion. You've seen most of them in other fantasy games. Those are mostly
inspired from Tolkien's works, although you'd notice they're not the same.

## Humans

Humans look exactly like you'd expect them to look like. I shouldn't need to explain them much, but if you need a brief
explanation, maybe check [this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human).

In Armitris, humans are best known for their research on magic and artifacts. Some of the greatest schools of magic and
libraries have been founded by humans.

Humans have slight bonuses to intelligence and to the speed of learning spells.

## Elves

Elves are similar to humans, except often taller, thinner, but the most standing out part is their unusually sharp ears.

Here, elves usually live in forests, and are commonly hunters, druids or alchemists. They stick close to the calm nature
and avoid busy and crowded places, so you'll rarely see an elf in a Sargonian city — but it's not unusual to find one
in a small village or a little town. The next blog will say more about why.

Elves have slight bonuses to perception and to interactions with animals or plants.

## Dwarves

Dwarves are quite the opposite of elves. They're short but thick-skinned and heavy. They often grow long beards — a
famous dwarf trait is that even women naturally have them.

Dwarves usually reside in the mountains. They are famous for their huge underground keeps, which usually live off
mining. Additionally, not many are able to stand against a dwarf in a beer drinking contest, and dwarves themselves
get high praise for their beer.

Dwarves have slight bonuses to strength and to amount of potions they can drink.

## Orcs

Imagine humans, but with big, muscular bodies and with the face of a beast. And usually a gray or green skin color.

Orcs aren't a common sight in places like Sargonia, most of them don't even keep contact with any of the other races.
They are the vikings of the Samerion world — they just plunder and burn villages. However, obviously not all of them
are like this and there have been cases of orcs leaving their bandit lifestyle, and even cases of orcs being born among
the other races.

Orcs have slight bonuses to dexterity and melee weapons.

## The moai

The moai are unique and very distinct from other races. They are skinny yet hard humanoids made of stone, with faces of
the Easter Island statues (the moais, hence the name).

The moais live in tribes, most often in their native land, and have a very strong sense of family. Despite that though,
they are not a rare sight. They frequently travel, often to see new things and pursue wisdom. They are often called
monks because of their incredibly calm nature. And yet, you probably wouldn't want to challenge a moai in combat.

Moais get slight bonus to charisma. Moais also have much more mana than the other races, but they use it much more
as it replaces stamina — which they entirely lack. Moais can be quite powerful, but are complex, as their basic
mechanics are much different from other races — For this reason, they are recommended for experienced players, those
waiting for new challenges.

## Secondary races

I've said "primary", because there are also a other intelligent races in the game, which are different enough they
don't count as playable.

This includes:

* Goblins, living in the mountains, commonly in caves, though not as capable of hard work as dwarves.
* A particularly intelligent and generally over-powered race: here be **DRAGONS**!
* A race unique to Samerion which you probably already heard of — the Goods. They live in a huge complex system of caves
  which makes the biggest dungeon of the game. Can't spoil the details.

On the side, all races generally speak a common language. A specific exception is the Goods, who have a whole language
which you might eventually be able to learn yourself! It even has its own special grammar.

## Future of the blog

Before I end this post I'd like to make an announcement: I'll probably soon start posting details about the pure
development of the game, delving into the code of the game. I will also make posts about programming in general, on
topics not necessarily related to Samerion. All of those posts will be marked as such, if you're not interested.

If this happens, I'll probably also **start placing ads on the website**. I'm looking into working with
<https://ethicalads.io>, as their ads are often just a little piece of text and they don't track, so you shouldn't find
them annoying.

With this change to the blog, I hope I can get some minor funding, so I could at least get a bit of money for hosting
the website, and by the way, expand the audience of the blog and the game a bit further!

---

I've recently invited a friend over to discuss the map of the game and I have it all designed. Expect it to be discussed
in the blog next week!

I'm also planning to make a post on why did I choose D as the programming language for Samerion.

Happy trails, adventurers!
