# Combat, pt. 1: turns and queues

Combat is one of the primary features of Samerion, just as it was at the beginning. Parts of it have retained their
concept entirely since the first PBF Samerion, other parts have greatly changed — those will be marked for those
who played PBF Samerion or Sargonia.

This is part one out of two — here, I'll explain how the system will work.

This part is mostly new, due to additional changes for 2D movement and multiplayer.

* **Part 1**
* [Part 2](/blog/2021-03-24-combat-stats)

## Turns

First and foremost, Samerion combat system is turn-based. Only one character can be performing an action at a time.

Each turn, a character can perform one action, that is, attack someone, use a skill, a spell, or move by a tile or few.

> New in Samerion: Samerion PBF and Sargonia didn't include movement. The new Samerion does. Hide, take cover, move!

## Turn timing

For everyone's first turn — in the preparation round — everyone gets some time to prepare and think out their next
turns. This will be about 15, 20 or 30 seconds.

Every next turn, however, will be only 5 to 10 seconds short. If you ended your previous rounds quickly, your next ones
will be longer, if you waited too long, they will be short.

5–10 seconds is *really* low for a turn-based strategy, huh? That's the point, the combat's not going to get boring
in multiplayer. In exchange however, you'll get a brand new mechanic: the action queue.

## Queuing actions

This is inspired by Pixel Dungeon which has something *kind of* resembling the queue system (but could be greatly
improved — that's what I'm doing). PD, as a roguelike, has very short turns. If you move from one place to another,
you might be making a few tens turns without even realizing it. I thought it would be fitting.

Since your turns are very short, you can mark an action to be done in the next turn even while waiting for others. You
can queue your actions for however many turns in the future you want. You can modify your plans at any time and if
things don't go as planned, press the "interrupt queue" button to stop the queue and rethink your situation.

If you have things queued up, time available for future actions will lengthen up, so you can get more time for complex
cases. If not, you may need to act quickly. Predicting the opponent becomes a very important task.

## Movement

You can move behind objects or behind terrain, crouch, take cover.

To flee the battle, you'd need to hide for long enough or stay far away from opponents. This might be challenging
sometimes, so make sure to use all resources you can!

---

This concludes today's blog post, I'll continue it to expand on statistics and possible actions. You'll be informed, as
always.
